Cat paws act as tempetature regulators, shock absorbers, hunting and grooming tools, sensors, and more
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.
Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.
A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
A cat can jump up to five times its own height in a single bound.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.
The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.
The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.
The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.
Cats' hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.
A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
Some cats have survived falls of over 65 feet (20 meters), due largely to their “righting reflex.” The eyes and balance organs in the inner ear tell it where it is in space so the cat can land on its feet. Even cats without a tail have this ability.
Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.
Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.
Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"
Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.
It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.
The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.
The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.
A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.
You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.
A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.
In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.
Owning a cat is actually proven to be beneficial for your health.
The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”
A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled over the last fifty years.
A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.
Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.
Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.
A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.
Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.
Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.
Your cat's heart beats at a rate almost double that of yours, from 110-140 beats per minute.
The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
